============================================================
Tor Project Code of Conduct
============================================================

Statement of Intent:

The Tor Project is committed to fostering an inclusive environment and
community. Tor is a place where people should feel safe to engage, share their
point of view, and participate.

This code of conduct applies to The Tor Project as a whole. It is intended to
provide guidelines for contributors. Employees and contractors of The Tor
Project, Inc. (TPI) are also subject to company policies and procedures. Those
people should feel free to contact HR with questions or concerns.

This code of conduct is not exhaustive or complete. It is an ongoing effort to
summarize our shared understanding. We want to provide a welcoming, safe
environment, so we can work together to pursue powerful solutions. We reserve
the right to deviate from strictly enforcing this code. Any deviations must
produce an outcome which is fairer, and aligned with our values. We understand
that keeping a living document relevant and “patched” involves sustained
effort.

============================================================
0. Summary: Don't be a jerk. Be awesome instead.
============================================================

The Tor community should be a good place where people are glad to be.

  DO: Be kind, thoughtful, and considerate.

  DO: Make Tor a place where people are happy and comfortable.

  DO: Remember: We are all contributing; we are all learning. Nobody was born
    an expert.

  DO: Yield the floor. Listen. Make sure everyone gets heard.

  DON'T: Insult, harass, intimidate, or be a jerk.

  DON'T: Treat honest mistakes as an excuse to hassle people. Mistakes are for
    learning.

  DON'T: Hunt for ways to uphold the letter of this code while violating its
    spirit.

  AND DO: Eagerly email: tor-community-council@lists.torproject.org with
    questions or concerns. Public key:
    https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/org/CommunityCouncil#Contact

============================================================
1. Purpose
============================================================

A primary goal of the Tor community is to be inclusive of many different
contributors. We want to include contributors from the most varied and diverse
backgrounds possible. As such, we are committed to providing a friendly, safe
and welcoming environment for all, regardless of their experience, gender
identity or expression, sexual orientation, family, relationships, ability
(whether bodily or mental), personal appearance, socioeconomic status, body
size, race, ethnicity, age, religion, nationality, or membership in a
disadvantaged and/or underrepresented group.

A safe environment means one free from abuse, whether isolated or systemic. We
explicitly acknowledge that tolerating abuse is a security problem. Allowing
abusers and malicious people to disrupt our community puts our software,
developers, and users at risk.

This code of conduct outlines our expectations for all those who participate in
our community, as well as the consequences for unacceptable behavior.

We invite all those who participate in The Tor Project to help us create safe
and positive experiences for everyone.

============================================================
2. Be your best self
============================================================

The following behaviors are expected and requested of all community members:

  * Participate in an honest and active way. In doing so, you contribute to
    the health and longevity of this community.

  * Exercise consideration and respect in your speech and actions.

  * Attempt collaboration and dialog before engaging in conflict.

  * Refrain from demeaning, discriminatory, or harassing behavior and speech.

  * Be mindful of your surroundings and of your fellow participants. Alert
    community leaders if you notice:

    - a dangerous situation

    - someone in distress

    - violations of this code of conduct, even if they seem minor

  * Remember that community event venues may be shared with members of the
    public. Please be respectful to everyone using these locations.

  * Respect the privacy of your fellow community members.

============================================================
3. Unacceptable behaviors
============================================================

The following behaviors are unacceptable within our community:

  * Violence, sexual assault, threats of violence, or violent language
    directed against another person, especially violence against a person or
    group based on a protected characteristic. (Display of weapons may
    constitute intimidation or a threat of violence.)

  * Sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist or otherwise
    discriminatory jokes and language.

  * Spontaneously posting or displaying sexually explicit or violent
    material. (If it is necessary to share such material when working on
    Tor's mission, do so with sensitivity. Be aware that many people don't
    want to see it.)

  * Posting or threatening to post other people’s personally identifying
    information ("doxing") without their consent.

  * Personal insults or attacks, particularly those related to:

    - experience

    - gender identity or expression

    - sexual orientation

    - family

    - relationships

    - ability (whether bodily or mental)

    - personal appearance

    - socioeconomic status

    - body size

    - race

    - ethnicity

    - age

    - religion

    - nationality

    - membership in a disadvantaged and/or underrepresented group

  * Inappropriate photography, audio recording, or recording of personal
    information. You should have someone's consent before recording these
    things, and before posting them publicly.

  * Inappropriate physical contact. You should have someone’s consent before
    touching them.

  * Unwelcome sexual attention: this includes sexualized comments or jokes,
    inappropriate touching, groping, and unwelcome sexual advances.

  * Deliberate intimidation, stalking or following (online or in person).

  * Deliberately undermining the spirit of this code while following the
    letter.

  * Sustained disruption of any community events, including talks,
    presentations, and online conversations.

  * Deliberately pushing against someone's stated boundaries.

  * Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.

============================================================
4. Unacceptable behavior has consequences
============================================================

We will not tolerate unacceptable behavior from any community member. We will
not make exceptions for sponsors and those with decision-making authority.
People in formal or informal leadership roles must model the highest standards
of behavior.

Anyone asked by another community member to stop unacceptable behavior is
expected to comply immediately. Please don't step in on someone else's behalf
without their consent.

============================================================
5. Where to go for help
============================================================

The Community Council is an elected body of Tor Core Contributors who can
assist with intra-community conflict resolution. Community Council policies and
information can be found on the Community Council wiki [1].  You can contact
the whole Community council:

  - if you have questions or concerns about the code of conduct, or

  - if you feel that you have witnessed a code of conduct violation

However, if you feel that there is a conflict of interest with any council
member, you may contact members individually. Council members' GPG keys are
listed on the Community Council wiki. If there is a conflict of interest, the
affected council member will recuse themselves. They will not be involved in
any discussion or documentation of the incident. More about the Community
Council can be found in the guidelines [2].

============================================================
6. What to do if you witness unacceptable behavior
============================================================

If you are subject to or witness unacceptable behavior, or have any other
concerns, please notify the Community Council as soon as possible. You can
contact the community council in person, or at
tor-community-council@lists.torproject.org. Current councilmembers are listed
on the wiki [1]. The Community Council's incident response will vary on a
case-by-case basis. The council will make every effort to respond to the
incident immediately. The council will prioritize the safety of the person who
has been harmed, or is at risk of harm. Person(s) who have been harmed or are
at risk of harm can withdraw the incident report at any time. We will never do
anything without the consent of the person who has been harmed or is at risk of
harm, except in situations where there is a threat of imminent danger or harm
to anyone. More information about the Community Council's incident reporting
and response policies can be found on their wiki [1].

============================================================
7. What the person reporting a violation can expect
============================================================

The Community Council prioritizes the safety and well-being of any person who
feels that they have been harmed or may be in danger of being harmed. Anyone
reporting an issue to the Community Council can expect that their report will
be taken seriously. Initial reports can be taken in written or verbal form. If
the incident does not require an immediate resolution, then a written report
can be shared with the Community Council in an encrypted format. The next steps
in an incident response will vary on a case-by-case basis.

============================================================
8. How the Community Council responds to incidents
============================================================

If a community member engages in unacceptable behavior, the Community Council
may take any action they deem appropriate, including but not limited to a
warning, informal mediation, temporary ban or permanent expulsion from the
community. Any actions and decisions by the Community Council may be appealed
by following the appeals process in the Community Council Guidelines [1].

============================================================
9. Scope of this document
============================================================

This code of conduct covers all community participants:

  - paid and unpaid contributors

  - sponsors

  - other guests

when interacting:

  - in all online and in-person community venues

  - in one-on-one communications that relate to community work

This code of conduct and its related procedures also applies to unacceptable
behavior occurring outside the scope of community activities when such behavior
has the potential to adversely affect the safety and well-being of community
members. As members of the Tor community, we support and follow this Code while
we are working on Tor, and take care not to undermine it in the rest of our
time.

============================================================
10. License and attribution
============================================================

This code of conduct is shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-SA 4.0
International license.

This code of conduct uses some language and framing from the Citizen Code of
Conduct, which is shared under a CC-BY-SA license: citizencodeofconduct.org

[1] https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/org/CommunityCouncil
[2] https://gitweb.torproject.org/community/policies.git/tree/community_council.txt
