============================================================
Tor Project Statement of Core Contributor Values
============================================================

Community health is a shared responsibility. By making the community more
inclusive and welcoming, we build a stronger and more resilient Tor. Perfection
is not required; a commitment to continuous improvement and learning is.

Our Social Contract defines our commitment to our users and the rest of the
world. This Statement of Values defines our commitment to ourselves as a
community of people working to build and improve Tor. This Statement of Values
quotes passages from the Social Contract to illustrate how the two documents
share underlying values. Some points from the Social Contract are omitted here
because they have less to do with how we treat each other internally. This
document is not a code of conduct; rather, it expresses the values that our
code of conduct seeks to implement.

    [Social Contract 1]  We believe that privacy, the free exchange of ideas,
    and access to information are essential to free societies. Through our
    community standards and the code we write, we provide tools that help all
    people protect and advance these rights.

We aspire to live by these ideals in our community by always taking care to
treat each other with respect. We can only succeed in helping all people if we
succeed in treating all members of our community in a way that achieves fair
outcomes for everyone. The world (including the infosec and privacy
communities) is full of unjust systems.  These systems, being unjust,
necessarily benefit some people and harm others. Those of us who receive those
benefits (like being taken more seriously, being criticized less, being safe
from certain kinds of harm) remain complicit in the injustice *unless* we
explicitly use our power to help those it harms.  We all fail sometimes, but we
all must try to do better, especially when we have the power to do so.

(This is what people mean by "privileged people have an obligation to help
people without that privilege." For more info, see "Unpacking the Invisible
Knapsack".) [1]

We believe that everyone whose values and goals align with ours should feel
welcome and safe in our community, regardless of their experience, gender
identity or expression, sexual orientation, family, relationships, ability
(whether mental or physical), personal appearance, socioeconomic status, body
size, race, ethnicity, age, religion, nationality, or membership in a
disadvantaged and/or underrepresented group. 

    [Social Contract 3] The more diverse our users, the less is implied about
    any person by simply being a Tor user. This diversity is a fundamental goal
    and we aim to create tools and services anyone can access and use.

We want to grow an inclusive and diverse community of people working on Tor. A
diverse community helps us achieve our goals of making our tools usable by a
diverse user population.

We are a community of people who care passionately about human rights such as
privacy, freedom of expression, and freedom of association. We need to be
careful how we apply our social rules. Applying rigid rules to people can
worsen existing injustice. After all, a rule can be neutral in principle, but
not neutral in fact. As we formulate and apply our policies, we must remember
that our rules are made to create a safe, fair, and respectful community, and
that they have value only to the extent that they serve that goal.

[1] https://nationalseedproject.org/white-privilege-unpacking-the-invisible-knapsack 
